[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm William Henry, and
this is "Ascension Keepers."
About 200 to 300 years
before the Christian era,
a remarkable mystical
movement arose.
The core ideas of this movement
came from Alexandria, Egypt.
But it spread to Palestine,
where these mystics set up
shop, so to speak.
In Egypt, these
mystics were called
the Therapeutae, the healers.
They were known for their
flowing white robes.
They established an embassy
outside the walls of Alexandria
on the shores of Lake
Mareotis near Alexandria.
In Palestine, they were
called Essenes and Nazarites
or Nazarenes, meaning watchers,
because they were watching
for a high celestial
being they believed
was soon to visit Earth.
Although they were primarily,
but not exclusively Jewish,
the Essenes were master weavers
of Egyptian, Iranian, Greek,
and Tibetan ascension practices.
In fact, for three centuries,
beginning in 300 BC,
the forerunners of
this mystic tribe
had been following
the way of the Magi,
researching and merging
Babylonian, Egyptian, Iranian,
Pythagorean, and Buddhist
alchemical philosophies
and ascension practices
that feature humans opening
holes in space and
ascending into heaven.
In my opinion,
they would heavily
influenced the Essenes
and early Christianity.
From these teachings,
they began writing
about translating
humans into angels,
opening gateways to
heaven, and the emergence
of a new improved
child of light who
would win a war over
the sons of darkness
and inaugurate a
new era of light.
Calling themselves the perfect
ones, or the way of perfection,
or perfect light
humans, they seek
to lead a revolution
in human evolution
that would result
in the appearance
of a new type of human, and
a different human experience
in our world.
We will use this word, perfect,
as a sort of a golden needle
to weave a thread through
various ascension traditions.
The word perfect means to become
more whole, more holy, more
complete and cosmic.
According to mystical
Jewish tradition,
Adam and Eve as archetypes
of the human race
wore celestial garments of
light, which was actually
a luminescent body that glows or
radiates light, like a rainbow.
The Essenes believed our
purpose and goal in life
was to return to our
original divine state
and recover our
garments of light.
Remembering our
light bodies would
lead to a transformed
world, they believed.
Early sources say the
Essenes lived on Mount Carmel
in northern Israel,
but they also
operated a
hermetically-sealed compound
at Qumran and elsewhere.
Calling themselves
the children of light,
the Essenes literally saw
themselves in a cosmic war
against the children
of darkness,
who they believe were
incarnated as the Roman Empire.
They claimed they
were making the way
for the arrival of a
high celestial being who
would lead a revolution
in human evolution,
transforming Earth and
humanity into a golden planet
of righteousness,
and the human race
and to its most
perfect state of being.
Many believe Jesus was
this celestial being.
Even more incredible
is the Essenes claim
that they were living, living
with an advanced race of angels
or extraterrestrials.
These angels, who
took human form,
were known as the watchers.
They were teaching the
Essenes the art of ascension,
or how to transform our earthly
flesh into a celestial flesh
and ascend to a celestial
city they referred to
as Zion, or the new Jerusalem.
Out to stop all this
mystical nonsense
are the children of darkness,
who the Essenes believe
are incarnate in the mighty
Roman Empire, the reigning
cabal on Earth.
In my opinion, the accounts
of the Essenes' interactions
with the celestials
are contained
in the Dead Sea Scrolls,
the texts they left behind.
These extraordinary
texts affirm there
was something truly unusual
and mystically special
about the Essenes.
They are quintessentially
spiritual,
oriented towards
the celestial realms
and its otherworldly
inhabitants.
Their goal was an alliance
with the upper world.
The scrolls describe cosmic
battles, beings, portals,
hidden agendas, and
new super humans.
And cloaked behind it all is
the celestial city, the home
and mother church of
their angelic teachers,
and the target of
their ascension
and how humans can ascend there.
The dark side won a
major victory in AD 68,
when the Romans
decimated the Essenes
in an early example
of ethnic cleansing
or spiritual genocide.
With the destruction
of the Essenes
and the murder of almost
a million of these souls,
their ascension
teachings were lost,
stashed in caves near Qumran,
but they were not forgotten.
Mystical luminaries sought
their teachings for ages.
Believing in reincarnation,
it's possible the Essenes knew
that their disappearance
at the hands of the Romans
was a temporary
state of affairs.
They would return.
The Essenes cache
of scrolls, in fact,
was rediscovered
by chance in 1947.
In my view, these texts
describe the process
by which all the Therapeutae or
members of the Essene community
entered or ascended
into the angelic life.
The Essenes sought this bodily
and spiritual perfection
in order to cross over
a veil or a boundary
then and commune
with these beings
and to stand united with
the angels before God
and to live in a state of
perfect light for all eternity.
One scroll speaks directly
of this transformation.
"And thou hast cleansed the
perverse spirit from many sins
that he might enter
into the station
with the army of the saints
and enter into communion
with the sons of heaven.
And thou hast cast an
everlasting destiny for man
in the company of the
spirits of knowledge
that he might praise thy name in
concord and recount thy marvels
before thy works."
In my view, the word sin simply
means to miss the marker,
to fall short of perfection.
It basically means
to be embodied
in fallen and imperfect
human flesh, as opposed
to our original and perfect
glorious light bodies
of celestial flesh.
The purpose of cleansing
or perfecting the spirit
and overcoming sin is so that
one may better serve God,
but ultimately, it enables one
to enter the heavenly realms
and live in communion
with the sons of heaven
as perfect light beings
in the celestial city,
according to the Essenes.
The Essenes have an aura of
profound mystery about them.
Writing in the first century
AD, the Roman writer Pliny
mysteriously claimed that
they had existed for thousands
of ages, hinting
that they are part
of a forgotten eternal race that
he says exists outside of time.
This may be the
race later referred
to as the immovable race
of perfect light humans,
or simply as the race in
the secret Book of John,
a Gnostic text of
secret teachings.
Becoming perfect light
humans was clearly
the goal of the Essenes.
Philo, the famous first
century AD Jewish philosopher
living in Alexandria, Egypt,
also briefly discussed
the Essenes in his
works, "Every Good Man
is Free" and "Hypothetica."
Intriguingly, he
traced their origins
to the time of Moses, the
Hebrew messiah or Magi
who emerged as a radiant
being after a meeting
with God and a burning bush
to lead his people to freedom,
and who supervised the
construction or assembly
of the Ark of the Covenant.
The burning man or
angel he encountered
was described as
luminous, humanoid,
and with a rainbow aura,
one of many such beings
we will encounter
in our journey.
Says Philo, multitudes
of his disciples
has the law-giver trained
for the life and fellowship.
These people are
called Essenes, a name
awarded them doubtless in
recognition of their holiness.
And we have to
remember, holiness
means to be luminous,
radiant, and angelic.
Others trace the Essenes
origins to Enoch,
the incredible pre-flood
sage, the first human
translated to heaven.
During his ascension,
the archangel Michael
anointed Enoch's
body with an oil
that dissolved his body into
rainbow-colored light that
matched that of the angels.
Take note of the rainbow
angel connection.
It will recur
repeatedly, and is a key
to understanding the
Essenes and their quest
to become perfect light humans.
These statements make it clear
that the Essenes were ancient,
they knew mystical
secrets, and these secrets
had to do with
human transformation
into celestial
beings and ascension.
The purpose of the
Qumran community
is precisely described in
the Call of Isaiah chapter
40, verse 3, to prepare
the way for the Messiah
in the desert
wilderness, to prepare
a people to meet the Lord.
Simply, the Essenes
believed a high celestial
being was on its way to
Earth, and they had a plan
to manifest this event.
During this visitation,
says The Community Rule,
the high heavenly being would
reveal the mysteries of eternal
being concealed from humankind.
At that time, the righteous
will be rewarded with healing,
great peace, and a long life,
and fruitfulness together
with every everlasting
blessing and eternal joy
and life without
end, a crown of glory
and a garment of majesty
and unending light,
says The Community Rule.
The goal of the
Essene initiates was
to attain this
crown and garment.
And actually, they said it's the
goal of all humans in all ages.
The Community Rule
affirms the Essenes
were a most holy community
who walk in perfection.
Their writings contain
their teachings
about the perfection
of this garment
of majesty, an unending light.
Actually, an angelic
light body composed
of celestial flesh as opposed
to earthly or human flesh.
This is the state of being
of the perfect light humans
mentioned earlier.
In Essene philosophy,
the word perfection
relates to wholeness, holiness,
compassion, and completion
in preparation for ascension
to a celestial city they
called the new Jerusalem.
Perfection is synonymous
with angelification
or angelimorphism, as the
academics refer to it.
This is human transformation
into an angel.
My research reveals that to
link the Essenes' understanding
of perfection with
the Tibetan Buddhist
concept of the great perfection,
or human transformation
into the rainbow light body.
Tibetan sacred art portrays
this transformation
as a flowing, vibrating,
pulsating robe of rainbow light
enlightened with gold.
In my opinion, this is
the same as the glory body
or resurrection body of
Jesus, the high celestial
being the Essenes
were calling in.
What I noticed is that the
symbols of the rainbow body
gurus, including Padmasambhava,
include his crown of glory.
The resurrection stick and
radiating rainbow light
are the same symbols as those
of the Israelite high priest.
And as we will see, it
links these two traditions
and tells us there is an
esoteric meaning to the Essene
teachings.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Ascension to the
Essenes is a process
by which righteous
humans are taken
to heaven and exist
in the presence of God
and wear the robe of light.
Properly attired, they
were now ready to come
into the presence of God.
And this is what the
Essenes termed resurrection.
Some maintain that
this resurrected
state of being only
lasted a brief moment.
They suggest these
initiates and adepts would
enter into an otherworldly place
and experience a brief trial
run encounter with
the higher realms,
and then would come right
back into their physical body.
Others maintained that the
resurrection or ascension
and their transformation
into an angel
was a permanent experience.
Before continuing,
we need to address
a very important question.
Why were they called Essenes?
Essene, what does the word mean?
The answer takes us to the
heart of the Essenes' mission.
The most favorable
definition is the one
given by Josephus, a historian
who was a one-time Essene,
but turned into a Roman soldier
and servant of the empire.
In his "Antiquities
of the Jews,"
he gave a description of the
vestments worn by the Israelite
high priest.
Josephus explains that the outer
vestments was called the ephod.
And part of the
vestment, he says,
was the essen, a transliteration
of the Hebrew word hosen,
meaning breastplate.
Hosen was translated into Greek
as essen, which means oracle,
and breast piece of judgment.
This breast piece, he says,
is the origin of their name.
Josephus's description
of the essen is alluring.
It had 12 different
colored stones, each
of them with the name of one
of the 12 tribes of Jacob,
who famously ascended
on the ladder of heaven
in the Book of Genesis
and returned to Earth
to found the nation of Israel.
These stones were arranged
three to a row in four rows,
and when the sunlight
hit these stones,
a high priest would have
radiated rainbow light.
The essen also contains an
additional two stones referred
to as the Urim
and Thummim, which
means revelation or truth, as
well as lights and perfections.
Later interpreters derived the
word from the root word light
and related it to the root
be complete, finished, whole,
or perfect.
The essen is
therefore a key part
of the garments the
high priest would
don before crossing the veil
and entering the holy of holies
of Solomon's temple.
This cube-shaped room whose
walls were lined with gold
was a place where
extraordinary things occurred.
Mortals entered into this
golden cube as humans,
stood on the footstool,
the Ark of the Covenant,
ascended to a place of
illumination via this throne,
were transformed into angels,
and returned from heaven alive.
Scholars, led by
Dr. Margaret Barker,
debate whether or
not this ascension
was a literal experience
or simply metaphorical.
The garments worn by the
high priest were real,
but the experience of
transformation into light
was imagined, some believe.
I'm of the view that
the ascension was
a literal transformation
of human flesh
into celestial flesh, and that
the garments of the high priest
were metaphorical,
symbolic, or imagined.
My research reveals
that the components
of this garment, the crown,
the breastplate, the belt,
and sandals are psychospiritual
attributes activated
in the consciousness of the
high priests in preparation
for their ascension
to higher realms.
Here, we see the high priest
Zechariah receiving word
from the archangel Gabriel
that his aged wife will soon
have a son, John
the Baptist, who
many revere as the great
Essene master initiator.
In his "Antiquities
of the Jews,"
Josephus hints at these
assumptions about ascension
and the Urim and Thummim when
he says that on the essen, also
there are stones, 12 in
number, of extraordinary size
and beauty, an ornament
not procurable by man
by reason of its
surpassing value.
Listen to that line again.
Not procurable by man by
reason of its surpassing value?
If a human cannot
picture it, who can?
How about God and the
angels, or humans who
are more than human, but in
between God and the angels?
That's the Essenes.
The breastplate
of righteousness,
the essen and the Urim
and Thummim stones,
did not operate on their own.
They were part of a kit of
tools, devices, or apps,
if you will, of the high priest
that are further identified
by the apostle, Paul, in his
letters to the Ephesians,
written while he was in
prison in Rome in AD 62.
In the letter, Paul gives
advice on living a holy, pure,
and Christ-inspired life.
In chapter 4, he
tells how to put
on the new self, created to be
like God in true righteousness
and holiness.
Therefore he says, each of
you must put off falsehood
and speak truthfully
to your neighbor,
for we are all
members of one body.
In your anger, do
not sin, he said.
Do not let the Sun go down while
you are still angry, and do not
give the devil a foothold.
Anyone who has been stealing
must steal no longer,
but must work doing something
useful with their hands,
that they may have something
to share with those in need.
Then Paul warns of a coming, or
is it an ongoing cosmic battle.
In my opinion, this
is why Paul is clearly
telling the Ephesians to
put on the essen as a way
to overcome the
children of darkness.
He is clearly urging us
to augment or supplement
the human body with
spiritual tools
for a battle against an
other worldly dark force,
or in order to ascend.
I understand this armor
to be metaphorical and
psychospiritual.
It comes from within.
It's something that we
externalize, embody, or exude.
As Paul says, the use of
this spiritual technology
forms a shield of faith,
a suit of cosmic armor,
or a second skin that seals
and protects us, and also
permits access to realms
off limits to humans
clothed only in ordinary skin.
Scholars have discovered that
Paul's letter to the Ephesians
reflects Essene texts.
They now see that this
letter was written
for readers with Essene eyes.
So it's important to note that
Paul is writing to multitudes
of people in Ephesus.
Josephus records that
many of the Essenes
had the ability to
predict the future.
Did they do so because they all
were wearing the breastplate?
No.
Once again, this suggests
that more than one person
wore this extraordinary
ensemble simultaneously.
In fact, they implore the entire
tribe of Essenes to be holy.
By definition, this means
to wear the spiritual armor
or second skin.
In order for this to work, there
must have been more than one
of these essen brass plates.
But again, the priestly
garb would be worn by all,
so are we to picture multiple
members of the Essene community
wearing the 12 stones and
other items simultaneously,
or is there another explanation?
Indeed, there is.
According to
Josephus, the Essenes
were trained to tell
the future, and they
were training to become
angels or celestial beings.
If the breastplate is something
activated from within our body
rather than material
objects placed upon it,
then we would presume
that training manuals must
exist for putting
on the breastplate
and the other spiritual tools.
In fact, numerous
Essene texts are
devoted to teachings about
how to put on the essen,
and how to ascend to
the celestial temple.
The two go together like a NASA
astronaut reading a training
manual while putting on a
spacesuit in preparation
for launch into space.
One such text is called
Self-Glorification Hymn,
and tells how a member
of the Qumran community
ascended to heaven for the
purpose of gaining knowledge.
Took an exalted place on God's
throne in the celestial temple.
And came back to Earth.
In fact, as Princeton scholar
Martha Himmelfarb documents,
boundary crossing
of this nature was
becoming common at this time.
The Essenes taught
that humans who
have completed the
ascension process,
referred to as apotheosis
and angelification,
can also sit on the throne.
Heavenly ascent was
all but eliminated
in the Bible, which views
heaven as God's domain,
and off-limits to humanity
without an invitation.
The Self-Glorification
Hymn tells us
the hero of the story, who
scholar Morten Smith identified
as the Teacher of Righteousness,
is one among many humans
who have been reckoned
with the gods or angels.
Again, reckoned
means made equal to,
therefore, there must
have been multiple copies
of the celestial
robe, or more likely,
it was a state of being
attained by they who
knew its secrets, the Essenes.
As Peter Schafer notes
in his book, "Origins
of Jewish Mysticism,"
in certain respects,
the speaker of this
hymn represents
the members of the Earthly
community in heaven,
and shares with them
his elevated status
during their joint worship.
In other words, the speaker
transmits the vibration
of heaven to the
Essenes on Earth.
A key point about the
scenes is that they
claimed attainment
of a light body
was a return to our
original state of being.
Whether we realize or
acknowledge it or not,
Western civilization,
our culture,
is based on the
Judeo-Christian premise
that the actions of Adam
and Eve, the first humans,
are responsible for our
current spiritual malaise.
This was wholeheartedly
believed by the Essenes.
Our timeline begins
in Eden and ends
with the Book of Revelation
and the appearance of Christ,
who leads a mass ascension
to, or reunification
with, a celestial realm,
the kingdom of heaven,
that completely transforms
Earth and introduces a time
when all live with
righteous values,
and hence, have expanded
spiritual capabilities,
including the ability to
manifest the light body.
Further, the Essenes believed
Adam and Eve had shining bodies
of light, and that our
goal was to reclaim
these bodies and the state
of being that goes with it.
As the Zohar, a
later Jewish text,
says, when Adam
dwelt in Eden, he
was clothed in a
celestial garment, which
is the garment of
heavenly light, light
of that light which was
used in the Garden of Eden.
In my view, what this
means is that when
humans lived in Eden, they,
we were in a different form.
We had perfect bodies
of light, which were
symbolized by a robe of light.
Our soul lived in a
higher realm or plain
of consciousness of pure
light and pure love,
at one with all that is,
Then, as the Book of Genesis
says, we disobeyed God's orders
and ate the fruit, later
identified as an apple
by the Greeks, guarded
by the serpent.
After this encounter, we
were evicted from Eden.
Yahweh placed a gate
at the east of Eden
with a flaming
sword at its center
and flanked it
with two cherubim.
Then the Old Testament
God did something
that many Christians
have forgotten about,
but which affects all.
That is, God made garments of
skins for Adam and his wife
and clothed them.
These were not animal
skins, as some profess.
Esoteric Jewish
tradition maintains
Adam and Eve's garments
of skin where human skin
that covered our
original light bodies.
As a result, our souls fell
into physical manifestation,
or the Matrix of Maya.
We began to experience reality
through the ego, our lower
nature.
We realized we were
naked and imperfect.
Both of these terms
mean we are no longer
in our original light body or
wearing our robes of light,
but rather are now
in human bodies.
Jewish tradition says that
Adam and Eve's original garment
was transported to
heaven, where it is now
in the treasury of the heavens.
The Zohar affirms
this, saying, at first,
they had coats of light,
which procured them
in the service of the
highest of the high,
for the celestial angels used
to come to enjoy that light.
After their sins, they
had only coats of skin,
good for the body,
but not for the soul.
And something we
must keep in mind
is that the Essenes
did not invent
the idea of the robe of
light or the light body.
The oldest version of stories
referring to the robe of light
come from Mesopotamian
religion, as do some
of the oldest creation tales.
A garment called the
[NON-ENGLISH] was worn
by the [NON-ENGLISH] priest and
was known for its whiteness,
light, beauty, and force.
It made him awesome
and radiant, giving him
a supernatural sheen.
He was charismatic,
like the gods.
The Essenes wore bright
white robes of linen
as the symbol of the
divine presence triggered
by baptism, and as a remembrance
of the Eden time robe of light.
This is exactly the same
as the [NON-ENGLISH]..
It is also the garb of
the celestial beings.
This is why ascension
or attainment
of our original light body is
symbolized by this white robe.
The key thing to remember
is that this light body
or its teaching or
frequency was transmittable.
For example, in the story
of Elijah's ascension,
we learned that as he was being
translated into his light body
form and transported to heaven
via a celestial chariot,
the chariot of the
gods, he transmitted
his robe of righteousness
to his priest, Elisha.
To the Essenes,
Elijah was a person,
but also was a state of being.
They had eight stages in the
evolution of perfect purity
and the attainment of the
spiritual powers of Elijah,
purity of baptism, purity
from animal desire,
spiritual purity, the purity
of a meek and gentle spirit,
the purity of holiness, the
purity by which the body became
a temple of the Holy
Spirit, the purity which
gave the power of healing the
sick and of raising the dead,
and then they attained
the mystic state
of Elias or Elijah.
On Earth, this robe or the
state of being it symbolized
enabled Elijah to perform these
miracles, to heal the sick,
and to raise the
dead, and to ascend.
His acquisition of this glorious
body and luminous garment,
which was passed down from
Adam to Enoch to Elijah,
signals his transition
from an Earthly
being to a holy one
or a celestial being.
And as they say, in order to
enter the heavenly realms,
we must be dressed appropriately
in the robe of light.
The Jewish people believed that
one day, Elijah would return
and would be the
herald of the Messiah.
Later, Jesus identified
Elijah, reincarnated as John
the Baptist, the
Essene master initiator
whose incarnation was announced
by the archangel Gabriel
to John's father, Zechariah,
a temple high priest.
In Christian art, John
retained the robe of light,
possibly having it given
to him by an angel,
and then transferred it
to his cousin, Jesus,
at the baptism, who demonstrated
what I call the light body
effect at his transfiguration
when he morphed into light.
From this investigation,
the Essenes
emerge as these sort of
superheroes for ascension.
They know that these
incredible teachings
that they have received from
the angels about the light body,
about our true nature, about our
true history will serve them.
But ultimately,
they have a vision.
They have a vision for a new
humanity, a humanity that
will live on a planet whose
base frequency or vibration
is love, light,
and righteousness.
And they know that
while they may not
have fulfilled it
in their lifetime,
that in some future
time, perhaps even today,
humanity will be able to
remember its true nature
and ascend to the
heavens with the angels.
[MUSIC PLAYING]